---
layout: post
title: EPSG number ascertained
date: 2005-04-28 07:26
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [GIS]
---
Three positive developments.<br /><br />The first is that I received carte blanche from the GLCF people in the States to use this data for free purposes. This will make the planned base map very good looking.<br /><br />The second is that thanks to reading the metadata file along with the three GeoTIFFs I downloaded, I have been able to establish the project as UTM and datum WGS84.<br /><br />The third is that I have ascertained the EPSG number for the dataset for my entry into GRASS which was required at setup. It is 32632.<br /><br />But a new problem to solve came up.<br /><br />I forgot how to set up datasets in GRASS! I must print and read the tutorials.<br /><br />As I understand it you must create a directory called GRASSDATA in cygwin using the UNIX interface. This allows GRASS to "find" the directory later.<br /><br />Possible solution might be to reuse the old SPEARFISH GRASS dir I have on my D Drive from ages ago, to sort of "initialise" the dataset usage.<br /><br />This afternoon I edited the scripts to process the downloaded imagery. I never get time when there is a little one demanding to be played with!<br /><br />Appendix:<br /><br />Here si the GLCF letter:<br /><br />Jeremy:Thank you for your interest in our data. There are no restrictions with regardto the use of our data. We simply ask that you credit the GLCF as the source ofthe imagery. Hope this helps. Sincerely,Matt Smith&gt; Below is the result of your feedback form. It was submitted by&gt; Jeremy Stocks on Wednesday, April 27, 2005 at 08:01:15&gt; ---------------------------------------------------------------------------&gt; &gt; phone: +49-89-67346643&gt; &gt; message: Hello there,&gt; &gt; I have a query about the rights to use the Landsat data.&gt; &gt; I wish to set up a free website for GPS based tracking by bike or foót toshare&gt; data in Germany. Is it possible to use GLCF data as a backdrop?&gt; &gt; Jeremy Stocks&gt;
