---
layout: post
title: A clear night sky in the Alps
date: 2005-09-04 11:12
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [starhopping]
---
Hello there,<br /><br />I am a Brit expat living in Munich. By day a stay at home Dad, formerly known as a GIS analyst, I keep a blog of my free mapping project at http://wherethehellisit.blogspot.com/<br /><br />I was able to get out of Munich and into the foothills of the Alps this weekend, to a superb dark sky site. Because if the recent clouding over of the Perseids this year, I have been reading a lot about radio observation of meteors. So the simple sight of a totally clear quiet rural sky punctuated only by the sound of cow bells you will understand was quite awesome.<br /><br />But Saturday was simpy for me a return to the fascination of what drew me to astronomy at 11 years old. Man what skies there were that night! I had dug out a pair of very old 7x56 binoculars for observing.<br /><br />First stop was Cygnus which was almost overhead at midnight here in Germany. A mental note was made to check out Albireo in the ETX when the chance next comes up as we are moving to a dark sky site south of Munich soon. Then left towards the eagle Aquila. Moving above the head I spotted for myself a new constellation - Delphinus the Dolphin, with the help of Patrick Moore's "Exploring the Night Sky with Binoculars". I have taken it upon myself to learn the lesser known constellations in the sky, togeher with their Arabic names - this owing to the sudden appearance in my Autostar during the alignment procedure of incomprehensible names to which constellation they belonged I hadn't a clue. Moving right of Cygnus to Lyra, one of my favourite groups, and yet another futile attempt to spot M57. That can wait.<br /><br />A clear view of the Plough or Ursa Major next, and one of the favourite binocular scenes I hadn't seen in ages owing to the location of awkward buildings and trees in Munich was Mizar and Alcor (more fascinating Arab names.) An attempt to seek M81 and M82 failed - this time because it was hard to make much out as the view was simply filled with faint stars, such was the visibility. Flying north to Polaris and beyond we made out Cepheus, one of the very first constellations I ever learnt years ago.<br /><br />Then turning round we got Cassiopeia, possibly one of the most beautiful simple constellations in the sky. I understand one of them is variable, maybe I shall study it in the future if time ever allows.<br /><br />Finally the highlight for me was to see Andromeda. To be honest, not just Andromeda and Pegasus but to search for the Andromeda Galaxy M31. And in these simple binoculars it looked fantastic. Question to more experienced: is it possible it looked better because of the relatively low power compared to say a 10x50? Does much more light come in the optics for a 7x56?<br /><br />I describe this session because I was simply taken aback at the clear sky beauty before me Saturday and reminded of why I have perennially found astronomy so fascinating and why I am at a slightly older age of 38 returning to the hobby. I was reminded of the fact that although I have sophisticated equipment (an ETX125 which is a headache to get set up) there is still so much to be seen both with my own eyes and with a simple pair of ordinary binoculars.
