---
layout: post
title: A late evening in Bavaria with the ETX125
date: 2006-06-16 00:08
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [starhopping]
---
Right then,<br /><br />Well I have spent ages trying to figure out this telescope, a mixture of the scope being badly documented and me being partlyx a bit clueless, never having any time owing to family pressure, and it was often too bloody cold as well!<br /><br />So tonight we got the babies in bed early and daddy got busy!.<br /><br />This evening I set it up in daylight with a spirit level and compass to get it bang on the alignment stars. The scope worked like a dream tonight!<br /><br />Best system I have found is to write a list of what you want to see. I had a long list of stuff I had wanted to see for years.<br /><br />Here is the roundup of the stuff I saw this evening. I have given them a star rating, pun intended.<br /><br />Epsilon Lyra The double double. Saw the double but only one of the doubles of the double - i.e., I only saw three stars in total. **<br /><br />M57 Ring Nebula Man! I have wanted this one since last year when I lived in the city but simply coudln't reach as it was behind a block of flats! This evening the scope slewed onto the unmistakeable nebula and god is it beautiful to behold! ****<br /><br />M11 just off Aquila in Scutum - low on horizon and nothing to see. . nil.<br /><br />Albireo in Cygnus Patrick Moore has raved about the beauty of this double star. How can two stars be beautiful I asked myself. Well when you see them, a bright orange primary and a bluish secondary...simply wow. ****<br /><br />M29 and M39 Seen but was not stirred by these. *<br /><br />NGC 5466 in Boötes nothing to see. nil<br /><br />M13 Hercules nothing. nil.<br /><br />M92 Hercules beautiful. ****<br /><br />Ursa Major M81 and M82 - didn't see much<br /><br />M27 Dumbbell Nebula in Vulpecula  beautiful to see. Glad I bought this scope!<br /><br />Jupiter - Not easy to resolve the two belts but checking the Castle Point AC website brought up the fact that only two Galileans tonight are visible, Calisto and Europa. Damn Red spot is on the other side! ***<br /><br />So there it is. What fun can be had with such a toy.
