---
layout: post
title: Hunting with the Lion and the Herdsman Böotes
date: 2007-03-12 06:59
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [starhopping]
---
To start with a prior diversion was made to Sextans to spot NGC3115.<br /><br /><strong>Leo</strong><br /><br />Then to the much wanted Algeiba in Leo. After several attempts I managed to resolve this double yellow in my 15mm eyepiece. R Leonis - I believe I found it but still need to consult the star charts my wife printed out for me to make some kind of start with variable stars. I understand it is one of the easiest to get started with. Additionally Dr Clay says that R UMa is also an easy similar star to observe over a period. At the moment these stars are in favourable postitions for my back garden. Studying variables has been an aim of mine since I saw Colin Henshaw doing it in the Arabian desert in 1998. My present loosely defined project is to spot all the Messier objects over the course of a year or so, though not striclty focussing on the list and diverting to interesting variables or doubles as I find them, additionally NGC objects also.<br /><br />M65 - elongated north south oriented blob.<br /><br />M65, M66, M95, M96 - all BFTs on my ETX125. Not the sexiest objects up there in my scope!<br /><br />M105 - BFT with a star in the middle.<br /><br />NGC2903 - fuzzy bigger blob than the others previously observed.<br /><br /><strong>Böotes</strong><br /><br />Eps Böotis - I spotted a small red star at 4 o clock to the main star.<br /><br />Xi Böo - no didnt spot it.<br /><br />M64 - is this a globular cluster? Can someone corroborate this?<br /><br />M85, M88 - BFT<br /><br />M98, M99, M100 - didnt see.<br /><br />M100 - very faint BFT.<br /><br />Now we come to the highlight of the night after admittedly not the most exciting spotting of fuzzy patches in the sky, the totally unexpected beauty of M3 and M5 and the first two of the spring harvest of globular clusters. Glowing profusely in the dark, both were absolutely beautiful objects in my scope. No stars were discernible however.<br /><br />M13 - couldnt see as there was a house in the way of the view.<br /><br />All in all, I would say that Algeiba M3 and M5 were the highlights of the night.
