---
layout: post
title: Why do I bother with this health thing?
date: 2008-12-30 04:42
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [fitness]
---
A few weeks ago on Remembrance Sunday there appeared on British TV a programme "The Fallen", an ages long documentary about every single death suffered by British forces out in Afghanistan and Iraq. I'm afraid I could only watch small segments as I found it too upsetting and moving but I pondered upon the sacrifices made by these brave men and women for us. I recall one of Tony Blair's speeches when he looked convincingly at the people and blurbed on about Britain being "the best". Quite what best at bugger knows.  Best at heart disease, cancer, diabetes, alcoholism, drug abuse, crime?<br /><br />I have seen so many near and far to me suffer from our lifestyle of being "the best"  It encompasses rich and famous as well as people close to me who have diabetes, cancer, heart problems and high high blood pressure. Our lifestyle with its dubious "pleasures" such as smoking which cause cancer, alcohol which lead to alcoholism if not checked, and eating red meat full of fat call me to question what being "the best" means. Don't we owe it to The Fallen to endeavour to make The West some kind of beacon of hope for a better future, and part of that future one filled with healthier people?<br /><br />Maybe it is just me but I believe that many of these are lifestyle related. I'm a sinner trying to be an saint. Last year I can remember cycling from the bakery with my wholemeal <span style="font-style:italic;">vollkornsemmel</span> rolls with the salty taste of a hangover from drinking too much beer and wine the night before and thinking how pointless growing my own veg is if I don't change my own lifestyle. I might as well be dead. So I endeavoured to reduce my own vice which is alcohol consumption. I buy now "Radler" which is basically shandy, as my evening beer drink. It was I just learned invented by a worker on the Munich-Holzkirchen railway so he could drink but not get plastered, and ater sold to people who drive cars to beergardens and cyclists so they don't swerve their way home. Cycling pisht on a bike? Nah not me ossifer. I still have "wobbles" but my consumption is radically lower than it used to be. I'm always looking to improve. A friend who is an expert cyclist told me Radler has too much sugar and recommended Tgernseer Light Beer which is healthier.<br /><br />Thanks to Jamie Oliver who not only in my opinion should be knighted but sainted, many of us have taken our first baby steps into food preparation and cookery. It has given us, at least me, a feeling of control over what we eat, more personalisation over what my family puts in their mouths, and moreover a sense of pride that my efforts have simply given them al good health. This achievment outlines just one half of my project.<br /><br />The first half, the growing and cooking of my family's foods is established as a regular annual thing now as we look farward to the new growing season the the possibilities it may bring, and the pleasure in cooking that food in our new country Bavarian style kitchen which is so nice to be in compared to the old one.<br /><br />So begins this year the second half of our mission. Fitness. I'm not that fit, but nor am I a fattie. But I want greater self esteem and to reduce my stress levels. I believe weight loss monitoring to be a central way to manage both sides of the same coin of health, nutrition and fitness. The path there is long and rocky but at least we have through the mists, discerned that a path exists.<br /><br />Hey that sounds deep like some kind of Guardian article dunnit? :)
