---
layout: post
title: One animal was harmed in the making of this meal...
date: 2008-12-26 05:27
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [food]
---
<p>I woke up Christmas Day in this total mental funk which I think started after our last mountain bike trip where I realised the outdoor season was over and we would have to withdraw indoors for the winter only coming out for brief walks. We hada fantastic autumn full of wonderful bike trips in the hills near us loads of fresh air and great views, so the turning back of the clock messed up my body clock for weeks - I haven't slept properly for ages. Last autumn I dealt with this by self adminitration of alcohol based medication and I assumed that alcohol was the cuase of my blues, but this year I got it just as bad, even worse when I had enjoyed growing my own food with some success and being outfoors virtually all day in summer. I missed so much being outdoors with the changes of the seasons.</p><p>We bought a goose from the Lidl supermarket which I compromised with Wife on as I had wanted a free range turkey which I knew had had a reasonably happy life before it was killed. Watching some of Hugh Fearnley Whittingsall's River Cottage and Jamie's Fowl Dinners made me uneasy this time about where exactly our food comes from for this time of year.  </p><p>The whole Christmas thing with its commercialism utterly depressed me. We didnt buy loads of stuff but lots of it was plastic crap made probably by children in some Chinese sweatshop, before being shipped in some football sized container ship to some container port somewhere on the coast of Germany. </p><p>We are as a family mostly what is known as ovolactovegetarian, which means we eat lots of veg, but also milk and egg products. But we do stray onto oily fish for the Omega 3 and poultry from the nearby farm. However I am starting to just get fed up with the whole meat eating rigmarole, but I am told we have to eat some meat as we have growing children who need protein. The whole Christmas thing leaves me cold now. I think it is time to get serious about veggie things.</p>
