---
layout: post
title: It's Not Easy Being Organic!
date: 2008-03-10 13:03
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [food]
---
Was honoured to be mentioned in a Brit lady's <a href="http://mumsnet.com/blogs/samanthasmythe/2008/02/22/reply-to-comments-sleep-honey-cat-and-country-living-and-not-being-slummy-mummy/#comment-19">blog</a> regarding veg growing and gardening.<br /><br /><div align="left">As we look forward to the new growing season we enter into it chastened and wiser. I entered into the enterprise last year digging up a chunk of lawn and really put my back into it, so much so that by May I had put my back out! The seemingly benign world of gardening can be dangerous. What I found in general was that I grew all these veg, but when they came I didnt have the first clue what to do with them. Also sometimes I was less than diligent in harvesting - my courgettes grew to 6 pound monsters! But what were a success were the fresh tomatoes along my south wall - they tasted a dream. Evcery visitor to us kept nicking them. My son was the main criminal, as well as pinching grapes whiclst passing my  vine trained onto my balcony!<br /></div><br />I think receiving the occasional veg box has helped too. You get odd veg which are out of the normal two veg from the meat and two veg kind and you have to Google for recipes to deal with it. That has forced me to research food much more, especially as I have to translate the German word into English. For example lastyear we got some scorzonera. Quick surf then plopped them in a pan with boiling salty water. Puree after cooking and the most delicious flavour. Same with Swiss chard. Bear in mind that when I started to cook (more seriously than meat two veg recipes)  the year before I dint even know what pesto was. Now I make Swiss chard pesto with ease. Aubergines? Bitter boring tasteless veg. But surf for Arabic "M'tabbel" and up comes a delicious hummus type spread which I used to eat every day after my lunchtime swim when living in the Gulf.<br /><br />I also learned to be not too idealistic in the beginning. Last summer I got hammered by slugs. As a beginner I tried to be organic and use no chamicals but in my opinion unless you know what you are doing in the beginning you have to use them a bit. I used fertiliser on my lawn which helped a lot. I resisted the idea of slug pellets for months till one night I gave in. They ate all my sunflowers - I had 25 of them nurtured from seed, all my lupins. Much of my veg bed was eaten. So one night I gave in and bought some pellets which were hedghog and other creature-friendly. 10pm I strew them all over the garden. Two days later laods of exploded slugs lay all over the garden.<br /><br />So my advice is until you know what your are doing listen to the locals' advice and use chemicals as long as they aren't really heavy duty ones. We all want to be organic, but how many of us have unwittingly imbibed all kinds of chemicals in our pasts. Our British food has had many kinds of horrible chemicals put into it for years.<br /><br />I shall try not to be too "right on" either. Simple basics like potatoes and beans will do. Last year I watched Gardeners World and saw this "Three Sisters" thing - beans sweetcorn, and pumpkins all living in feminine harmony with each other. Inspired by the Woodstock generation hippy thing - hey I have the Directors Cut on DVD and often put on old Pink floyd vinyl through the headphones late night when the kids are alseep and I have indulged in too much German beer - Tried it and what happened? One orange sized pumpkin and a few ropey beans. The corn grew tall but overcropped. Result? I am sick of all corn and pumpkins now - we've been eating the soup for years anyway. Cue the need for a more creative approach to veg and cookery.
