---
layout: post
title: Starting to understand fitness
date: 2008-12-23 14:43
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [fitness]
---
<p>I've been using my cross trainer recently. It has this complicated computer screen thing which I always promised myself to understand.  Show here in this blog page are my efforts to grasp this stuff mathematically as an approach to weight loss. It was by coincidence that I found <a href="http://jeremy.zawodny.com/blog/archives/006851.html">this link</a>.</p><p>As is typical of me I always do things at the wrong time.  Just as Overindulgence Season hits us on Christmas Eve I get into weight loss. I compartmentalise things a bit I admit. Growing food was my focus last year. learning to cook it another, which are now established ongoing interests for me. The two new things I wisg to learn about are exercise to stay fit and alternative energy. </p><p>Exercise to me is the other half of being healthy. Thanks to the fact that we renovated our cellar and finally found a home for the cross trainer wich never got used a few years ago as it was in a too public position (I felt an idiot working out in my conservatory), and I bought a cheap MP3 player to listen to (working out is boring without music), I now have a chance to get a bit healthier. This blog will also chronicle that as well as my understanding of weight loss issues.</p><p>Time to hit the scales. As of 23 December 2008 I weigh 82.9 kg. Thanks to Wife measuring me I am 186cm high. Plug that into an online calculator to ascertain Body Mass Index and it shows that my BMI is 24. </p><p>According to the evaluations of this figure I'm just within the healthy limits, but I'd like to shave some off that. When I lived in the Gulf I swam almost every day and had a nice chest which I'd like to regain. I'd like to climb out of my inflatable swimming pool in summer a bit like Daniel Craig coming up the beach in a Bond film to impress the wife and any female visitors.</p><p>Reading the documentation dug up another calculable statistic, the Base Metabolic Rate. Again online calcs showed my BMR to be 1846.13. According to the Harris Benedict formula which I decided to use the 1.2 factor as I am hardly a sportsman yet:</p><p>Calories needs when sedentary = 1846.13 * 1.2 = 2215,356</p><p>15-20% of that is 332-443</p><p>So I need approx 1883 cals based on 15%</p><p>Such a shame that after sussing this out I went out for a pizza and a beer! Another calory bomb, equivalent to the guilt induced vegetable juice I made the day before (I added carrots, celery, apples and finally garlic to clean out myself after overindulging in my home made grape harvested mulled wine the night before then an hour later blasted into myself two whole Twix!)</p><p>Now I've started surfing around this problem I've come across a fascinating PDF written by the chap who founded Autodesk, the rival software to that which I used to use for years known as Microstation. He's written <a href="http://www.fourmilab.ch/hackdiet/online/hdo.html">The Hackers Diet</a> which takes an engineering approach to weight loss. </p><p>To train effectively I've read you need to use the five zone approach where your heart rate falls into one of the zones to achieve a goal. So now I need to figure out my max heart rate. According to <a href="http://www.marathon-training-schedule.com/maximum-heart-rate.html">this page </a>it is 176,83 or 177. That's close to the simple calculation of "220 - your age" figure I've seen elsewhere. According to <a href="http://www.howtobefit.com/five-heart-rate-zones.htm">this page</a>:</p><p>50%     of your Max Heart Rate  =   88.5<br />60%     of your Max Heart Rate  =   106.2<br />70%     of your Max Heart Rate  =   123.9<br />80%     of your Max Heart Rate  =   141.6<br />90%     of your Max Heart Rate  =   159.3<br />100%   of your Max Heart Rate   =  177</p><p>So then here are my heart zones;</p><p>Zone 1 50%-60%   - bpm  = 88.5 - 106.2<br />Zone 2 60%-70%   - bpm  = 106.2 - 123.9<br />Zone 3 70%-80%   - bpm  = 123.9 - 141.6<br />Zone 4 80%-90%   - bpm  = 141.6 - 159.3<br />zone5  90%-100% - bpm = 159.3 - 177</p><p>So now I know I should only take up my heart rate to max 106 on the cross trainer. Knowledge is power.</p><p>"The Hackers Diet" is an excellent book which takes an approach to health I can understand. I feel now I am starting to join up the dots a bit. I always knew intuitively that healthy eating and exercise were important, buthe exercise seemed too complex. Thanks to this book I am starting to gain someunderstanding of this side of the equation.</p><p></p><p>Nex things I think I should write about are what appears on the side of a packet.  Diggng out a litre carton of milk we have values (in German in my case) for Brennwert/Calories, Eiweiss or protein, Kohlenhydrate or carbohydrate, Fett or fat and other stuff I don't understand yet. Cholestgerol is a target to Google and I'll dig up a link on that.......</p><p>Hi. I'm back. The Central Scrutinizer. A quick surf while Open Office installs its spreadsheet dug up facts about cholesterol, and the fact that there is "good" and "bad" cholesterol, and triglycerides.</p><p>Armed with <a href="http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/what-should-you-eat/fats-and-cholesterol/">this page</a> of info we can change immediately the stuff we buy to get healthier:</p><p>1. Use liquid plant oils for cooking and baking. A big drop in butter consumption is indicated.</p><p>2. Ditch the trans fat - need to learn more about that. <a href="http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/nutrition-news/transfats/index.html">Done.</a></p><p>But what is transfat in German? die Transfettsäure. Job done thanks to Leo.de</p><p>3. Switch from butter to soft tub margarine. It must contain no trans fats or Transfettsäure</p><p>4. Eat at least one good source of omega-3 fats each day. Hmm only became aware of this recently when buying fish so need to learn more. We need to eat more trout and salmon from the fish van.</p><p>5. Go lean on meat and milk. </p><p>so based upon that above we can: buy less butter, spread more olive oil on our bread instead of butter, and buy more low fat milk. </p><p>Right enuff of thst, time to chill to Banco de Gaia on the cross trsiner. </p><p><br /><br /><br /></p>
