---
layout: post
title: Taking the "green" thing abroad
date: 2008-09-10 16:03
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [food]
---
I've been lucky enough to have two holidays this year, Corsica and Croatia. We kept them cheap by camping using a tent I found free at the local Vivo recycling place in the first instance, and staying in a local man's 'Apartman' as they are called. in Croatia.<br /><br />Whilst there I experienced something of a unique culture shock. As an expat in Germany I am used to recycling on perhaps a much deeper level than in certain parts of my native UK. We have no need to compost here as our local recycling centre is so good, both accepting green waste and selling it us back as cheap soil. However in Corsicxa this ethic is taking time to sink in. There are different bins I observed even in hill villages, but the feeling I got was that the separation of rubbish which is second nature here in Germany and rapidly cathing on in Britain didnt exist. Driving through Italy one gained a similar impression. Perhaps it is more a northern Europe thing, this new green way of thinking.<br /><br />Down in Croatia which is one of my favourite countries, we overnighted in a nice harbourside town and stayed as we do in local people's rooms. We went for breakfast next day and were given friendly service, but everything brought came in plastic containers and it seemed nothing was locally produced. Driving round the island of Korcula where we were based we saw acres of unused farming terraces which our apartment owner told us used to be for wine growing until a virus wiped them out so it was no longer efficient to grow them anymore. I saw huge potential for future food growing as they seem to have almost no domestic agriculture on the island, the chief export seeming to ve wine.<br /><br />This leads me to a question: when one becomes used to cooking good food, how can one take this new way of thinking down to countries which have still to cat up?
