---
layout: post
title: Let's get wombling!
date: 2008-08-20 14:52
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [wombling]
---
Viva Vivo!<br /><br />This blog details what I now acknowledge to be a large part of my life, recycling and reusing discarded stuff. For the non Brits Wombling is the term used by those architects of recycling "The Wombles" who graced our childhood screens in the 70s.<br /><br />You see for me recycling is a huge part of my day to day life. Much of it revolves round the local recycling centre Vivo here in southern Germany. I can dump a whole trailer full of garden waste for free at this place, and purchase cheaply compost and topsoil for the garden. It also has another facility where you can purchase stuff from a flea market. So far here is a list of my trophies. On the conveyor belt tonight....<br /><br />- a telescope<br />- a family tent (used in Corsica this year)<br />- rainwater barrels<br />- computers and old parts like fans<br />- paraffin lamps for those romantic evenings out in the garden<br />- a blackboard for the kids<br />- lots of cuddly toys for the kids<br />- loads of puzzles and memory games. Pity I haven't got one (a memory)<br />- the old boardgame Diplomacy<br />- an old fashioned paraffin lamp (anyone remember using them in the '73 oil crisis powercuts and how exciting it was to a child then?)<br />- a food processor<br />- two rattan wickerwork chairs for the conservatory<br />- lots of huge plant pots thrown in the building waste skip<br /><br />In addition, when I have recycled our plastic, I've found fantastic items the rich ones have no more use for:<br /><br />- a cafetiere - just one dishwash away from reusability<br />- a wonderful glass fruit bowl. Sadly smashed by two year old.<br />- a crock pot for those winter stews<br />- a garden strimmer - bit dubious this one as it may not work properly.<br />- an old terrarium - ideal for propagating plants next spring<br />- a set of excellent speakers which now give my PC sound, by the bins<br /><br />Anyone else into this activity?
