---
layout: post
title: The Road Less Travelled (or so I thought till I met loads of other Western trekkers in the unspoilt places I was hungry to experience)
date: 2009-08-26 02:43
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
<!-- 		@page { margin: 0.79in } 		P { margin-bottom: 0.08in } -->
<p style="margin-bottom:0;">It started with Elsie Tanner on Coronation Street being “sent to Coventry” for something. The nery next day the entire class decided to do the same to me. Ina direct example of children being influenced by TV noone spoke to me the rest of the day. I could see them whisper to each other “Send 'im to Coventry”. My crime was just being me.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;"></p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;">Another I remember vividly. One of my tormentors – not one of the worst mind you as he was occasionally nice to me – was taunting me from the back of the class. The final straw was removing my chair just as I went to sit down. For the first time in my life something “right” clicked inside and I confronted him in the class, and thumped him in the eye. Not being a violent person I must admit to feeling a sense of justice however at my standing up for myself. The sad fact <em>for him</em> was that he wasn't the worst, there were others more suitable for retribution of that nature. I have to add now that as the years have passed and given the peaceful lands in which I've travelled, I feel a lot of guilt over that episode.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;"></p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;">So it was that preparation for O levels would leave me occasionally bursting into tears for absolutely no reason sometimes. A referral to the doctor would send me on a trip to Denbigh to a psychologist. From then on a very nice man Mr Williams would come to visit me and I was able to talk to him.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;"></p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;">He would sit and listen to me, which I don't think anyone had done so up to that point. He lent me a special tape which changed my life. It was called “Progressive Muscular Relaxation” and it was a soothing voice teaching me to relax each major muscle group, until I reached a state of utter peace. Invariably I often fell asleep by the end of the session. to this day I do indeed practise this method.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;"></p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;">From then on I visited libraries and started to read about relaxation, meditation, Buddhism and religion. However many of them were rather “dry” as my father might put it, and Quite often the lofty tomes would end up under the bed unread and unreturned till weeks after the due date to the usually disgruntled librarian. However the impact of the books was profound. I must have absorbed by some kind of osmosis segments of these books as it led me to a younger life of travel in the world's mountains and deserts, through lands suffused with the influence of Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism.  I would try new adventure sports at every turn, as though scaring myself to death in differing forms would lead me to some kind of inner truth. In my day I tried climbing, paragliding, scuba diving, desert exploring, rafting, biking and skiing. It is only now with age I realize I just got scared, and not a lot the wiser for the experiences. Another theme influencing those adventures was a disdain for the modern world and the greed culture so prevalent in the era in which I experienced adolescence, leading to a reverence for the simpler forms of living espoused by various forms of monasticism.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;"></p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;">It would lead me to the astonishingly bright desert light of the Indian Himalaya breathlessly struggling without success on the slopes of Stok Kangri in Ladakh, India. That same craving of absolution of the soul would draw me to the deserts of Arabia, and from there a hunger to penetrate its secrets. Long desert trips were made into the interior, arriving by nightfall and waking up to desert scenery of an unbelievably spectacular nature of high cliffs, deep canyons and blue skies. Gazelles and ibex were spotted, limestone caves abseiled into and crawled through on hands and knees until one stood up in a a cave of great beauty. Ancient forts were explored and fossil trees and corals were collected from the desert floor. Another kind of beauty was experienced on the coral reefs of the Arabian Gulf and Red Sea, participating in marine research projects. Whilst in Saudi the opportunity came to return to India to spend time on safari looking for tigers, and to visit the Garwhal Himalaya up close to the Chinese border, and to see the hill station to which my father was posted in 1947. Another trip led me to the classic trekking experience in Nepal, flying in to Kathmandu then on to Pokhara for the famous Jomsom trek. My love of the Himalaya drew me back to explore the Langtang region later.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;"></p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;">After returning home to Britain this travelling life came to an end. It should be noted here that none of the trips above were undertaken on a particularly high budget, nor ón a shoestring. I worked for a company based in sunny Rhyl under somewhat unhappy circumstances, and was thrilled to receive and email serendipitously when it ended offering the chance to undertake my profession in Mongolia. Yet another Buddhist country beckoned me. It was in this country that I met my beautiful wife. It is somewhere deep in the nature of things relationshipwise that the hunger and craving of understanding which motivates the above described endeavour that this somewhat sates itself in ways I cannot explain, and a different kind of motivation, that of building a secure nest as that of any blackbird, and nurturing its babies until they are ready to fly unaided.</p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;"></p>
<p style="margin-bottom:0;">It might be argued that all of the exotic locations explored above don't even compare to the equally demanding inner adventure of nest building and family rearing. It may be in my case that the linear nature of each trip which possessed a start and an end make it easier to present the earlier half of my life experience in a logical order. I spent almost five years in Saudi Arabia indulging myself in freely travelling where I wanted (or at least only accompanied by a travel letter to visit other provinces of that Kingdom). I've spent over eight years living in Germany undertaking the family experience under unusual circumstances to which I was born, under a foreign language and a culture nuanced slightly different to my own. The fact that I can now speak and almost think in German to some degree and have grappled with the challenges of raising a family means I have extracted something out of this bicultural experience probably far deeper than speeding around a desert in an old Lada Niva. Presently it just feels like a highly confusing, lonely and exhausting experience. Perhaps one day some kind of clarity may prevail to enable me to make sense of my time here at present.</p>
