---
layout: post
title: Spring is sprung!
date: 2009-04-22 22:22
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Sonnenacker]
---
Well this blog wakes up as we wake up and get busy for the new planting season. what has happened? Well the biggest is our house now has a new extra window and is letting in light into a hitherto dark and dingy room. Our terrace has been cleaned with a high pressure washer and is also looking stunning. Together with our kitchen which we had new last year the whole place is starting to become special. is it the nature of renovation projects that they are a bit miserable in the middle but turn a corner then start to look amazing almost on their own?<br /><br />The garden went from struggling under the last snows which rapidly melted to a heatwave. There was barely time to hone the newly learnt pruning skills on the apple trees and grape as the latter dripped sap following its somewhat late snip. Note to self: always prune at Christmas the grape, allowing it time to heal. Spring this year seems to have been almost non existent, and even now in late April the Forsythia is just in bloom, emphasising the long and bitter winter we've suffered. <br /><br />The veg growing season is under way with a vengeance, though is rather all took me by surprise. Last week was the official handover of the "Sonnenacker" which led to a flurry of my busy hands recently plopping in a load of garlic which spent the winter in my conservatory inert but regularly watered. I planted out its small cloves with several inches of green on them, then afterwards a full set of onions. Together with celeriac at home in the veg bed and carrots we should have a full Mirepoix selection for stocks and stews. Parsley I am growing as a matter of course all over this year, like salad (lettuce) we couldn't get enough of it last year. Thyme I planted in our flowerbed as well as rosemary. Sage I also have but maybe the winter ruined it. <br /><br />I've sown so far garlic, onion, broccoli, cauliflower, lettuce, chervil, basil, lovage, potato in the Sonnenacker and at home scorzonera, spinach, potato, garlic, lettuce and Swiss chard. <br /><br />Today was exciting in that I took delivery of special seeds from Poetschke like Borlotti beans, Jerusalem artichoke (topinambur) chamomile for tea and colds, and stuff like carrot bands which sow in strips at the right distance apart.<br /><br />There are lots of photos to share later so I shall publish them as and when.
