---
layout: post
title: My Son's big day today!
date: 2009-01-05 08:34
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Stay At Home Dad]
---
Today is a special day for us because my second baby starts kindergarden. For the last two or more years of my "Stay At Home Dadding" he's been my responsibility, always at my side 24 hours a day since his Mum went back to work. Childcare alone is a stressful undertaking, but childcare in a foreign culture as a man alone out here in a somewhat conservative society where it is expected that the women stays home and the man works is a difficult undertaking indeed. The other day we were walking in the mountains and my wife was pulling the kids' sledge. Some woman passed some comment that it was my job to do this but she replied that I was unwell. The mood I was in, I felt like saying to her "You women have thrown yourselves under horses to gain this freedom, now you have it you complain", but I meekly plodded on. <br /><br />Unlike a job where you have a set task or even several set tasks which you must juggle and with an outcome to those tasks which may be success or failure i.e., they have a beginning and an end, good or bad, childcare is an amorphous entity. There si no boss to tell you what to do, and you are not the boss, rather circumstances and the situation that minute dictate what you need to do. All you can do is respond to your limited experience and draw upon your basic paternal instinct. There are no applauses in the background when you calm a sobbing child in your arms who's fallen over, nor are there admonishing fingers when exasperated with wills stronger than your own, you lose your cool and attempt to pull up that zip which they desperately want to do themselves with minutes ticking away for some doctor appointment or kindergarden bell.<br /><br />In my home Welsh village there are poor wretched young girls who end up pregnant very early on in life with babies to look after alone. Although the fathers have long disappeared down the pub and dived into a glass, very often their misery is temporarily abbreviated by some grannie or aunt who helps out in a support network. Of course we had support here of the feminine kind, clothes and toys were appropriated  from family, friends and flea markets and shops. But what I lacked here was a commonality with other men. There were few opportunities to gather with other blokes and simply drown the day's frustrations with a convivial laugh and a beer. The isolation here was at times rough to take, the only kindred spirits a few drunken clicks away online. The Oil Age, Information Age and globalisation have transformed the last century and engulfed us in a tsunamic wave of migrations and wanderings and left us a bit like Noah's Ark on Mount Ararat after The Flood, stuck on islands bereft of our familiar bearings and comforts. So it is in this context that I have undertook the fatherhood project here. <br /><br />Was I any good? Hell, no. At times the pressure was so great I couldnt cope, and my inner man sought comfort retreating into the cave dreaming of other noble pursuits related to providing for my family through veg growing and cookery. I may not have been a model Dad, but my children grow up having had a start based upon good nutrition and health. How many places for the family does one see where the idea of a treat is a plate of greasy chips or tooth rotting sweets? All of these "family day out" places I call "Stink-of-chips" places where children receive crap food and start habits which set them up for a poor quality of life in my opinion.
