---
layout: post
title: Questions about David Mackay's book
date: 2009-12-31 04:06
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Right I'm wading through David Mackay's ebook.  I will work through it slowly.

Chapter 1

p13. "<em>Moreover, it’s worth bearing in mind that much of the industrial emissions of China and India are associated with the manufacture of stuff for rich countries".</em>

...leads us to wonder why after Copenhagen, much of the blame was put on China for its non-agreement in the talks.

p21. The shortlinks don't work, unfortunately. I'd like to download the Charney report for example.

Chapter 2.

p. 26. "By discussing ev-
erything per-person from the outset, we end up with a more transportable
book, one that will hopefully be useful for sustainable energy discussions
worldwide."

....can we apply this to Germany?

Chapter 4 Wind

p33. He estimates availability of wind resources over Britain. I remember an old GIs model called TOPEX - TOPographic EXposure which claulated locational suitability for wind frams from 20 years ago.

Chapter 7 Hreating and cooling

p52. I could easily interface ,y figures from last year when I boowed the energy messgerät.

Not enough maps showing potential across Britain, based on simple GIS analysis.

Chapter 10 Offshore wind

p60. Digital bathymetry data for estimates of extent of area suitable for shallow winfd farms

Chapter 15 Stuff

This is just one quote which makes the whole book so redable...

"Drink containers - let’s assume you have a coke habit: you drink five cans of multinational chemicals per day, and throw the aluminium cans away." class!

20   Better transport

p124. Cycle routes - thanbk God for the German Greens!

21   Smarter heating

p144 - refer to my degree days calculations this year. I look forward to recalcing them New Year with new bills and temp data from Fraunenhofer Institute

p146 "Like district heating and combined heat and power, heat pumps are already widely used in continental Europe, but strangely rare in Britain
",. I believe the street I used to live in central Munich was uprooted for a CHPO project for central heating pipes.

22   Efficient electricity use

Oh joy! A website right up my street!

http://readyourmeter.org/

Chapter 24   Nuclear?

"That’s the same volume as 35 olympic swimming pools. If this waste were
put in a layer one metre deep, it would occupy just one tenth of a square
kilometre."

I was astounded by this figure. If he is right and we can trust our governments not to get their dirty paws on it for bombs then I'm converted to the nuclear argument, as a sceptic from the poioint of view of waste for yeares.
