---
layout: post
title: An Unhealthy Passion for Food?
date: 2009-12-31 17:49
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [food, permaculture]
---
Do I have an unhealthy obsession with food?

I just spent the afternoon slow cooking a wonderful chicken curry. It was a great way of using up leftovers from Christmas dinner, and with my wife home I was able to take more time and really <strong>savour</strong> the process of cooking good food. She appreciates my cooking and says I like to cook.

As we'd been ill round Christmas time, I only cooked the chicken on the 27th. I  started about 1 pm on that day, gave myself plenty of time to prepare, simply got into the whole process of preparation of the chicken, including preparing a nice stock from the innards for the gravy later, and making a tasty stuffing out of apple, sage and sausage meat. Almost all of the herbs came from the garden, even though some of the parsley I had to pick through snow and ice on the old veg bed, and my fingers got numb bringing it in, no matter. I feel good about food if there is a small story around at least one of the ingredients I use in my meals. It's like a connection to nature out there. With the bird duly stuffed and placed in the oven at 190C I followed the rule of 20 minutes per pound and 20 minutes over, for a 3kg bird that would make 200 minutes in all, plus resting time of 30 minutes afterwards. The veg side was sprouts, carrots and parsnips, classic winter British fare. The food came together effortlessly after 4 and a half hours and we sat down to a sumptuous meal. As long as the winter period has just one meal like this I'm happy.

The next day was spent dealing tidily with the leftovers. A stock was made from the bones and skin, with herbs, and simmered for over three hours to extract the goodness from the bones. This I froze for later use in a Chinese or a normal soup. Today I made up a lovely curry. Somewhere in my recipe books there's this template for curry of garlic, onion, ginger then pestle and mortar some cumin and coriander seeds, chilli powder and turmeric.  My reasoning was that as long as this template was followed one couldn't get it wrong. Thus a passable curry may be attempted from these seven ingredients.

However to make something with a little more pizazz one must add more. Added to the usual tin of tomatoes, one may add a little garam masala, then try it, then some lemon juice then try...now just a bit of coconut milk, but NOT the whole tin, just to add a little moisture. Then a little more chilli, the  sugar. The point being to taste it each time something is added until  it starts to "take shape" in the mouth. Thanks to writers like Alton Brown and Harold McGee they've made me really aware that what I do in the kitchen when I mix ingredients together is really a process of chemistry. Good cooking is like producing a work of art every single day on the family plate. Would that I could. What's even more magical is if the chief ingredient was pulled out of the ground or picked off a tree or bush, then carried to the kitchen. A more satisfying relationship to earth one cannot find.

Several years ago I became influenced by a BBC show "Grow your own Veg" and dug up a chunk of lawn (doing my back in the process). I think it is something in the British island independence "Dig For Victory" mentality which has influenced me. However my first year hit a snag - what to do with all the produce? I must have wasted loads through ignorance off food and what to do. Previous allotment fodder would be simple stuff which went on the side of the plate, like a plate full of peas or carrots, or even runner beans. it was in the old days,  a little uninspiring.

Then in burst Jamie Oliver with his "Jamie At Home". My copy was a present from sis in law who is a foodie, and the pictures, his way with words, ideas, spellbound me. Before long I was making up pizza doughs, tomato sauces, even his home made burgers, feeling like a cook. His words in his books were such an inspiration. Following that a permanently borrowed copy of Delia was dived into and weekly Friday fish from a small mobile kiosk became a fixture.

For the last two years I've experimented in a German style allotment, but ran into snags here. Much of the food in a bad summer simply doesn't grow well at my 700m altitude, and the short distance to access the patch uses up petroleum, something I felt guilty about as I already got into growing to reduce my carbon footprint. An old freezer was cajoled off sis in law but I found it to be too much a consumer of energy after borrowing a device to measure energy consumption. The only way in my own case was to grow as much as possible at home in my own garden, and have several crops a year, using poly cultures

Then began, in my nature at least, the beginnings of questioning of where it all came from. Millions of articles later I became aware of peak oil and how dependent food was on cheap oil and how we had to get off our addiction to fossil fuels. I crossed over to energy as  an interest - we ran out of firewood and gas at the same time last year as bad luck would have it - and the more I read about it. the more I became convinced that we needed to adopt a permaculture approach. I became ware of the Toby Hemmenway "Gaia's Garden" permaculture book and vowed next year - this year in fact - to make a start to turn my garden over to these practices.

Last Christmas I'd intended to buy a farm organic chicken but events conspired against me doing this and so it became a compromise goose from a cheap supermarket. Raised in Poland, according to River Cottage not under the best of conditions it prickled my conscience and made me think of us all going vegetarian. I thus would peruse the Vegetarian Society's website and attempt to learn some techniques. However my daughter fell on the trampoline and hurt her arm in a hair line fracture. Was this brittle bones due to too little calcium? I also suffered spring  tiredness. Was this lack of iron? Thus I decided with a heavy heart to take us back to meat, but still only organic in the majority, and hopefully the animal had had a quality of life before it got chopped.

A visit to the excellent "Soil and Health" site brought up the Weston Price Foundation site and the book by Sally Fallon "Nourishing Traditions" which states that the people at the margins of the earth away from industrial agriculture live the healthiest. The book is supposed to detail recipes for simulating these ways. That is on my Christmas present list. The other will be Kiko Denzer's clay oven building guide. These are the new food adventures for 2010.

But being so passionate about food like this has drawbacks. The first is you get this ideal about what you want and the problem is the reality rears its head. Many of the ingredients you want simply aren't available to purchase in the local supermarket. In my case there is the German-English language barrier, yet sometimes that works in my favour and I get preferential treatment, especially at my favourite bakery.  Another is the quality of the food I want to buy. Often its not organic, and not grown in  the local area. My town at 700m is quite high. This means we eat tomatoes driven up by lorry from Spain, which by the way are somewhat tasteless. The worst is the quality of the meat. Basically hygienic of course, yet the standards by which the animals are reared and the quality oif their lives before slaughter are issues dear to me thanks to Hugh Fearnley Whittingstall's River Cottage series on Channel 4. It does tend to frustrate that no one out here other than cooks, chefs and farmers  seem to have this awareness of from where our food is coming and how vulnerable we are to changes in supply. I think the problem is more acute in the US and UK than in Germany, and to that end I've started to read a lot of Michael Pollan's articles.

If he's achieved just one thing to influence me it is to really grow yet more food this year, get my own garden in order and learn permaculture.
