---
layout: post
title: Buying a caravan
date: 2012-08-26 10:34
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [caravan]
---
OKay so yesterday we were right down for buying a brand new van. Being ever the optimist I needed my wife's more realistic inout. Over night she thought it through better than I could and we came up with several issues which I thought might help someone else in the same situation. We're a young family with two small kids so our sisuation applies everywhere else.

The first thing to think of is:

<strong>Where to put the thing?</strong> When not in use you have to first of all think of the winter. Winter hammer stuff here, so you have to find some kind farmer who will let you stiore it out of the nsow in a barn or "scheune". In summer you need space to store the van near the house. We have issues with that in that we have to knock down a garden wall to fit it in our garden.

<strong>Evening entertainment</strong> The days of Scrabble by gaslight are over. Noone in 2012 wants to sit straining their dehydrated eyes staring at 7 letters whilst drowsy from probable light carbon monoxide poisoning. People want telly and usually that means satellite and usually that means English telly if they're expat. We almost bought one without anything fitted in - I reckon a second hand one adapted might do the job.

<strong>Putting beds up and down in order to eat.</strong> Anyone remember the hassle of this? If you have a young family you need a bunk bed for the little blighters. The ideal setup is one where there are beds already laid out which don't need digging up as we did in the old days. These exist and are worth checking out.

<strong>Resale in the future</strong> - Germans are no longer allowed to tow heavy loads. we saw lots of vans with roofs which detach and raise up. So if you buy a full height van now you won't be able to sell it to a young family in 5-10 years time.

so these are a few of the reservations we have before we enter into a caravan project....
