---
layout: post
title: A world turned upside town by Jimmy Saville
date: 2012-12-23 17:11
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Jimmy Saville died last year and I recall I paid my usual respects to him via our British/American bickerfest, sorry expat website Toytown Germany. Early this autumn however, disturbing stories began to emerge about his behaviour which I immediately dismissed as all "David Icke" rubbish. Subsequent revelations upturned my views completely, then the infamous BBC Newsnight broadcast went out. That night I went to bed late, having disappeared into a very dark rabbit hole peppered with named like "Slog" and Spivey", and jaw dropping stuff I never even knew existed. I experienced a mix of nausea, "breaking news" OMG shock and overwhelming anger at what had gone on.

In the cold light of day, an aching sadness took the place of these motions. I went to my gorgeous kids lying in bed and hugged them tight. Lots. I shall outline in a while just how ridiculously I spoil and have fun with my kids, especially during morning school wake up time!

So thanks to these blogs: http://renegadesblog.wordpress.com/ and http://ynysmam.blogspot.co.uk/ I've had my eyes opened to a side of stuff I never knew. I come from a small Welsh seaside town Llanfairfechan, my parents were workers (Dad Hotpoint in Llandudno Junction, Mum Bryn y Neuadd hospital, in Llan) yet they worked so I was able to go to Polytechnic in Stoke on Trent then Leicester and get degrees which gave me a flight out of restrictive financially poor north Wales to the sunny Middle East, then Germany.

Before anyone asks yes I miss Llan and Wales every single day and it takes a breath to give me the "Hiraeth"! My town, someone told me, was very easy to escape from yet very hard to get back to.

Everything I "knew" as certain early on in life is now in flux. I'm now deep in the writings of David Icke playing a game of "This is or isn't plausible" when I read his stuff. No longer do I dismiss any of his writings as nonsense.

The following is reposted from "The Outlaw" blog, not his writing (which is so brilliant) yet a person who had much in common with him.
<em>
<em>AWAKE….

……..WITH SOUL ATTACHED</em><strong>

“Watching and listening on twitter, the best of the truth instead of MSM, I have come to a conclusion and not a conspiracy theory.

Judge for yourselves.
 2 points – His Dark Materials.
 Philip Pullman and Ben Elton-most works.
 Ben Elton gives us “Chart Throb” showing us the truth about the x factors and the pop idols that our kids hero worship every weekend on the tv.

“Stark”- corporate conspiracy with regards to the ecosystem

“Blind Faith” we answer to a confessor and communicate by our online profiles, nothing is scared.

Read his work if you can.

Now Pullman, got it clearer than that.

The “Amber Spyglass”
 Physics, philosophy and and theology.
 Some characters may remind you of some of our online tweeters.

“Dust”- energy, is frightening to the magisterium (the government and the “city”). They focus on the “gypserium” who they cannot control because they wander too much (our gypsies) and steal their children.

A child, called Lyra (silvertongue) can see events and truth by using the amber spyglass(alethiometer) and they want her out of the way. (Thousands of them in our world and rising).

They have already taken all the children and separated them from their deamons ( souls/innocence), by means of a machine (our time-abuse of the innocents, used for power and blackmail)

But we have some heroes. This could be anyone you want to choose
 - our Lord Asriel, a scholar in pursuit of “dust”. Focused on real history and bringing together the parallel worlds. Very smart and respectable man.

@Angleseydrift our Lorek Byrnison a powerful bear with armour, despondent when his armour was stolen and was a little bit of a rogue and sometimes grumpy, but he got his armour back and his kingship over the other armoured bears as well as his dignity. Now a warrior following a very strict code of conduct and never betrays a promise he has made

@madamemooch – our Serafina Pekkala a witch queen, a natural beautiful woman who comes to fight to protect the children. Flies around on wood

@realjimmyjones our Lee Scoresby , he is an old arctic hand and extremely skilled, sharp with a gun but non violent in most cases, intelligent and displays consistent ethics. He is friends with Lorek, they once fought together in a past situation.

This may be a story but it is happening.

The “misisterium” as we shall now call the government and the “city,” who run this country and many other places in the world has ruined our lands, chemicals in crops and soil, tainting water, and controlling everything they can.

They control the MSM feeding us with their lies. They poison us and then offer free NHS treatment and load us with man made drugs. More poison to keep the wheels of the NHS running so they can eventually create a massive need for it and sell it on for profit.

They use this illness and sickness to control the poor. We give you money then we take it away. We will control you. That is there message. IDS leading the way with Osbourne. No-one at the Royal Duchy Estate gets ill because the soil is nurtured, the cows are fed healthy, the vegetables grow with organic healthy soil. The water is distilled from all toxins. No NHS for them, herbalism and homeopathy.

Get it now?

The public drink tap water and eat food that has been so processed and toxic that they end up ill, but the ministerium make sure that is all they can afford. They need the people ill, depending on NHS and drugs, no voice, no energy, mental illness boxes ticked. Keeping the people down is their goal.
 Homeopathy and natural remedies provided by the earth we live in is seen as “unreliable”, people who have found cures are seen as “ quacks”.

We have others like David Icke, some questionable stuff in my opinion but mostly very true. But they shot him down, oh how the public laughed at the man in a shell suit.

Who is laughing now?

They are. 

We believed them because they have conditioned us in every way possible through lies, branding, poisoning.

Power and trade is their agenda.

Power over innocents, used for gain within their agenda or arms trades and blackmail.

Thats is why it is so well covered up. Its not about the Jimmy Saville’s and Lord McArsewipes, yes they were higher in the tree, but its the roots we should be going for, not the branches with the little leaves they let fall off and blow around to irritate and upset the masses. This only keeps the papers filled for a day till another leaf blows off or gets pulled and thrown.

The corporations like the BBC and NHS and MI5 and DSS are all little branches or their corrupt tree.

We accept this as the norm. Our healthcare, our media, our food, our water, our benefits.

OUR RULES, OUR LAWS. 

Not ours, theirs.

Because we get brainwashed every fucking day!

No more sheeple as one of our warriors say.

Take back your health, alkalise your body, kill bacteria and fungus by cheap hydrogen peroxide in distilled water as illness and disease cannot live in an alkaline environment that is oxygen rich.

Keep it simple and go back to basics, basic science, basic anatomy of the body, basic energy and use your gut instinct. Basic food and water with no added shit.

Watch yourself get well and your head clear. Switch off the tv and do not buy a paper. Read what you choose and fill your mind and brain with educational information that will help you fight.

Our earth gave us all the necessary tools, including certain bugs so we would thrive but we lost that ability when the ministerium decided they wanted power.

Time for a change. 21.12.12

“Well fuck you ministerium, we are awake and you will never cut our souls away from our children or us. 

We will change our deamons (personalities/souls) to suit in whatever way we can to bring you down

We educate ourselves and we will clear our heads, some already have. #anonymous

We see you in your glass house and we are coming to smash your fucking windows in.”

See you soon
 Silvertongue

This was sent to me today by a Dear Friend, a fellow Survivor who will never give up the fight. I have posted it here unedited, her words, her thoughts, her aspirations. I for one applaud and support her…</em>
