---
layout: post
title: Wichea
date: 2012-10-25 19:13
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
<p>Deep in the land, barely touched by any man's hand, save for the gentle caress of nature's seasons riven by sun, wind rain and snow, something was stirring from a long sleep. In a clearing in the forest, where only deer and fox timidly set foot, a flock of starlings took to the wing in unison. First ten, then a hundred, now a thousand. Yet more.... just when one might think that no more might come there were even more. So unique yet by the time all were aloft there were a million birds in the air. </p><p>Such a natural show, yet with the sight of so many, one might be forgiven for wondering were there otherworldly forces influencing each tiny starling mind. First left turning, then simultaneously a right turn. Such a hive mind, all functioning as one., for such a flock was indeed controlled, not by each bird, but by a highly sensitive individual. Known to deep nature lovers as an "ornithomancer", he was able by the turn of his mind, to subtly control the birds. A unique relationship existed between man and bird, for it was impossible to tell who influenced the other - bird mind or man mind. All that mattered was that he was able to stand in the middle of the forest clearing, and his beloved flock could circle him loyally and protectively.</p><p>Such people were able in the olden days when forests were quiet, long before steam engines and cars, to sit quietly in a wood, and allow their mind to become the universal mind of nature. Such sensitives could even on rare occasions, influence the trees. Then the wind blew, it was frequently asked was it really the wind alone which swayed the great boughs or was the tree moving to command, each swing helping the tree become stronger.</p><p>Only the most sensitive were able to gently sway the trees. But all were able to see with their special eyes lines of energy in the earth. Known as wichea lines, they could travel the countryside, navigating only by these gentle energy rays which every migratory bird could see as if it was daylight, when flying south to Africa.</p>
