---
layout: post
title: Why voting left or right is nowadays pointless - the Illuminati Hypothesis
date: 2013-01-15 03:54
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
<p>When I finished my O levels at Eirias in Colwyn Bay I took my A levels. I picked Maths, Economics and Geography. During the two years pf these "studies" (raging hormones and moving house halfway through them in 1984 - why oh why do you sit life changing courses at this age?) I learned in Economics all about the Theory of the Firm, demand and supply and so on. I could only understand a fraction of this stuff while in Eirias, so much so that I came out with a E at A level. That to the non-Brit is still a pass but a crap one. My geography was a distastrous F - Fail.<br /><br />It was in Bangor Tech that I resat them, same subjects the September after. Here away from irritating smaller pupils (God how I hated the sixth form snobbery also) I studied Economics deep enough and actually fell in love with the subject. It was a deep body of knowledge I enjoyed spending hours immersed in, its logic and assumptions, its models, its charts. I understood enough of it to be able to, upon being presented with some question, to formulate a 45 minute answer and create deep arguments with each paragraph. I think this was my first stirrings of acknowledging to myself that I was creative, rather uncool to find that you enjoy "creating" an exam answer but there you go. (I will later detail how I owe the creativity of my BA thesis to psylocybin to save some cred).<br /><br />As I remember it, the Theory of the Firm was an excellent way to study microeconomics. I can even now rabbit off the assumptions (Large number of buyers and sellers, perfect information blah blah...) - but as I understood the economic model you had on one side (to give it a left or right epithet might confuse a reader that the argument was capitalist or socialist) "perfect competition". In this comptetitive Utopia no one firm was allowed to dominate the market. Firms remained small and thanks to perfect information never grew too large. A stock exchange was held to be the ideal model of such an extreme in economics. At the other end was monopoly. The teachers always drew oppressive looking charts to illustrate the essential features, labelling with a red pen the wonderully apty named "abnormal" profits, spitting out the words as opposed to calmly reciting "normal"profits accruing to perfectly competitive firms.<br /><br />Now ot seems to me that the only way to achieve fair perfectly competitive markets is by having a set of rules and laws to maintain a level playing field, or if you don't, a Darwinian "survival of the fittest" mentality ensues. To my experience, such a situation exists here in my adopted land of Germany, and thus so you have a huge "mittelstand" of firms competing against each other yet with strong laws enforced to keep each competitive yet each still seems to get a fair share of the pie. Contrast that with what to my perception seems to be the case in the US or UK, where the trend is ever bigger monpolies aggressively competing against each other, merging and taking each other over to form one huge superfirm. Huge supermarkets merge and dominate each other, certainly the juggernauts trample roughshod over Britain's landcape and fair trading smaller firms. Why are they allowed to do this? <br /><br />In Ulan Bataar in Mongolia (where I met my German wife in 2000) there is the State Department Store. during the tme of the Communist era this was the only place you could otain any kind of luxury good. The central feature of the communist system is that everything is centrally planned. All your life is organised by "The Party", which collected statistics, met at meetings, allocated targets for production which you had to meet next year. Production was tightly controlled, even your energy was provided by the government. Vast coal fired power stations belched smoke into the atmosphere near Ulan Bataar to keep the ugly tower blocks warm - the ultimate central heating system!<br /><br />I ought to add that while I found Mongolia fascinating and have seen much of the former Communist bloc, I could never have lived or thrived under that system. It is a drab grey way to organise human affairs.<br /><br />Now given what I have just described above, what is the difference between a huge supermarket destroying businesses in a town and a communist central department store? When the large conglomerate has destroyed its competition there will be no need to actually even advertise its wares as there will only be one shop, it will control all its suppliers and dictate the price it pays to its farmers, while dicating that it is the only source of food for its consumers. The power it has over both will be unrivalled. <br /><br />Now take the mental model of the department store in Ulan Batar and the out of town shopping centre in Britain. What is the huge difference between them? One of them has slightly better adverts that's all. What you are seeing is a merging of "neoconservatism" and communism.<br /><br />Is the trend towards everything becoming more central and less diverse some kind of merging of ideologies? When you hear the word "globalised" perhaps is it not better to use a word "totalised" instead? Play with that word for a moment and ou might get "totalitised". Play with it a moment longer and you get.....I leave that (my old text books used to drop this in at the end) as an exercise for the reader.</p>
