---
layout: post
title: Doormat or Dictator?
date: 2013-11-04 02:56
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [parenting, Uncategorized]
---
<p>Scenarios we experience which bring me to the white hot coals! :-</p><p>My son won't sleep in his bed</p><p>Doormat - nothing we can do</p><p>Dictator - "I do not want you in our bed!"</p><p>Both fail.</p><p>New strategy: if you are scered in the night, you call me and I will come and lie with you till you sleep, every time.</p><p> </p><p>Getting up in the morning for school</p><p>Doormat - my rather daft "snooze button" method of waking every 10 minutes like a digital alarm clock</p><p>Dictator - shouts and threats!</p><p>New strategy: i shall wake you both up, just one nudge, but after I shall dress you both upstairs and get you both ready, so you both get "me" time.</p><p> </p><p>Battle to get daughter to do homework</p><p>Doormat - "Do it when you want". </p><p>Dictator - "Just sit down and you can't do xxxx till it's finished.</p><p>New strategy - "I will directly intervene - if it's maths i can def help. If it's German, we scan it immediately and send it to Mama", then we are all free to relax.</p><p> </p><p>Mess lying all over the place</p><p>Doormat - I tidy and clean all the time, yet my wife thinks I do absolutely nothing all day. I get tired and can't tidy every mess, then yes i don't tidy anything up.</p><p>Dictator - "No you can't play that as it makes a mess".</p><p>New strategy - "You can play what you like, build dens etc as long as you yourself tidy it up or I can help you tidy it up together. You tell me when you want to clear the crap away."</p><p> </p><p> </p><p>failures in modern parenting:</p><p>(http://amithaim.com/en/2012/05/24/confident-parenting-introduction/)</p><p> </p><p>1. They don’t define clear goals for themselves and their children.</p><p>2. They set bad examples for the goals that they wish to instill.</p><p>3. They don’t set resolute boundaries.</p><p>4. They don’t know how to listen and talk to their children candidly.</p><p>5. They weaken their children instead of strengthening them.</p><p>6. They don’t succeed in creating a parenting partnership.</p><p>7. They fail to adapt their leadership to changing familial needs.</p><p> </p><p> </p><p>Dealing with exernal visitors:</p><p> </p><p>er....how?</p>
