---
layout: post
title: Grief Two - the dubious experience of midlife orphanage
date: 2014-07-27 22:32
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
<p>Right then, we may be on a dry run for Grief Two, i.e., the death of my second parent, i.e., my Dad.&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><em>Grief is one of the most common reactions to a loss. There are typically five stages of grief: Denial Anger Bargaining Depression Acceptance These stages may happen in any order, at any time, or not at all. Some people feel some but not all of the stages of grief. Because there is not a typical loss and each situation is different, it is hard to figure out what a "typical reaction" is. Some people feel: Shock and disbelief - difficulty accepting what happened, numbness. Sadness - one of the more common feelings experienced. This may also be emptiness, despair, loneliness, and crying. Guilt - things you said, shouldn't have said, or wanted to say, not preventing the death. Anger - feelings of anger and resentment. Physical symptoms - aches, pains, headaches, nausea, changes in sleep or weight. However you are feeling, it can be overwhelming and out of control. One way to manage intense emotions is to observe them, describe them, and label them. Sometimes putting a name to your emotion can help you express it. Also remember that we experience emotions like a wave - the emotion will build, crest, and recede. Talk to friends and family who love you and make you feel good about yourself. Lean on people who love you and care about you. Don't expect that you're going to "get over it." The only way to "get over" a loss is to go through the stages of grieving. There's no reason to try to be the strong one - just let yourself feel however you feel. - See more at: http://www.bandbacktogether.com/loss-resources/#sthash.AIwRWtl9.dpuf</em></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>.---------------------------</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><em>Regardless of the particular circumstances of your loss, it is essential to express all of your emotions and to discuss your most frequent thoughts and challenges in regard to your grief. You can do this in several ways--by setting up times to talk with a friend who has also lost a parent, by joining a support group, or by talking with a pastor or counselor. What's important is that you can allow the feelings that occupy you, sometimes even overwhelm you, to come to the surface without apology.&nbsp;</em></p><p>-------------------------</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Fourth, think about what to keep and what to give away, not just of your parent's possessions but of your parent's beliefs, personality traits, habits, skills, aims, loves. Which of those will continue to reside in you? Which ones will you nurture? Which bring you less peace and comfort and can be let go?</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>----------------------------</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><em>Or your parent may have revealed some unpleasant, disturbing information to you before dying.</em></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>--------------------------------------</p>
