---
layout: post
title: Travel Memoirs – Saudi – November 1996
date: 2014-07-02 07:28
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Ibexpedition 1996

On Wednesday 13th November 1996 at 5pm four brave souls set off Riyadh bound. Stopping at the Wasia gas station to refuel, we noted the availability of ‘Sand Vetches’ in the restaurant, and tiptoed past a Bedouin truck packed ten feet high with stuff that ‘teeter-teetered’, threatening to fall upon anyone at any minute! Negotiating the devilish Riyadh ring road for what seemed like the umpteenth time this autumn, we pulled off and hit the high plateau. We made camp late, noting the cooler weather up here.

Next morning, after a very chilly night in the sleeping bags, we broke camp, under the eye of a passing wild dog. It started out cool, but it soon got warm again, and we drove down to meet Kevin Dunham at the Wildlife Research Centre in Thumamah. Formerly the site of the private animal collection of King Khalid, the old stables and pens are now used for the breeding of gazelles and ibex. In addition other creatures are housed here such as some wolves who looked rather frightened by our presence.

Kevin drove us to the Pens, enclosed areas within a disused circular agricultural irrigation field. Here the gazelles are bred before their introduction into the Reserve. We noted both mountain and sand gazelles here. Kevin pointed out the larger ibex with their fine spiral shaped horns. These were impressive, yet Kevin also pointed out a creature with a bigger mantle, the dramatic black and white Arabian Oryx. Their straight horns, up to a metre long, would have spiked anyone near who tried to photograph them. Finally we were taken from the Pens to a more open range where the gazelles run free, which enabled us to gain nice ‘fence free’ pictures of these splendid animals at closer quarters than we’d get later. Also, distantly, ostriches and zebras ran around – King Khalid must have had an impressive collection!

We thanked Kevin and proceeded for Wadi Howtat Bani Tamiim, a long tiring drag of a journey through an impressive sandstorm. Clouds of dust rose up, and the big dunes appeared to sail across the land. We noted many checkpoints on the road, and a few accidents resultant from the patchy visibility. Eventually the escarpments and wadis came into view. We turned right under an arch with Arabic script announcing the entrance to the Reserve. On the way down we noted many cars parked on the right side of the road literally in the middle of nowhere which turned out to be a football match! Passing Riyadh Rovers and Howtat Bani United we shortly arrived at the entrance to the wadi, which is guarded by the rangers camp. As it was late we had little time but to introduce ourselves, and make a brief foray for animals, then make camp. Before we settled in however, we did see small groups of gazelles distantly, beneath the acacia trees, a small foretaste of the thrills to come.

We chose a beautiful location on the advice of Kevin, just before Wadi Aima, in a small valley enclosed by high cliffs, the bottom lined with 20ft acacia trees. As it was dusk we had to pitch camp quickly before the natural light ran out. Our fire was situated in between some nice big acacia trees and bushes. Paul unloaded the wood while Andrew did his usual trick with the kindling. Ant and I both pitched our tents. Very soon we heated tinned stew and brewed up some nice tea. There is something about a cup of British tea in the desert which is very civilised!

We arose at 5.30am to make the best of the opportunity we had to see some animals. Keeping disturbance low just two cars went on the safari. I was armed with my 200mm lens at the ready to try to capture on film any sightings. We were not to be disappointed, when beneath an acacia thicket we spotted a family of gazelles grazing in the shade. As they noticed us they ran for cover, but not before we’d snapped nice pictures of them. We drove further up Wadi Ghafar, through the old fence posts, making more sightings. Just then we noticed some ibex higher up on the cliffs. A large creature jumped a full ten feet down from one ledge, and we thought he would surely be badly hurt, yet he scrambled on with impunity. We drove to the head of this larger wadi, sighting small groups here and there, before turning back to travel the southerly Wadi Ghaba. Sightings of single gazelles were made, as we cautiously moved further in.

We left the cars and went on foot to the head of the valley, to a small spring. Water still trickled down here, in spite of this year’s harsh summer, and lush greenery abounded. Andrew being the plant man, noted a hanging shrub with large fruiting pods next to the water source. Paul pointed out a tame Holme’s Wheater who flitted about us, possibly with a ‘nested’ interest in this locale! We brewed tea back at the cars, before what was to be the beginning of the return phase of our journey.

The drive back from the spring to the rangers camp was 20km of some of the most spectacularly scenic desert four-wheel driving available in Saudi Arabia! It was challenging and tough, yet exhilarating. Huge 500ft pinnacle rocks in wild formations towered above us, some shaped like antlers, pagodas and all flights of fancy. Some threatened to topple over yet would take a long time to do so.

We arrived at the rangers camp, to be greeted by Ibrahim, the chap Kevin had named as a friendly local who would prove helpful in advising us on good locations for ibex. Unfortunately he had been unavailable when we arrived the night before, but he made up for that with what followed. He beckoned us to an outdoor ‘majlis’ held on a large Persian carpet outside the lodge. He had a wizened face borne of years in the open air, poaching in this area for the very creatures he now protected. As we sat down, his Indian assistant brought out a kettle and tiny glass handled cups into which he poured hot sweet tea. They sank a treat and as usual with this sort of hospitality, the cup never went empty. The shai part of the ritual over, he then brought out a bowl of fine dates, or thamar which we munched on. It is easy to see how the Arabs used to gain all their nutrition from these humble yet rich fruits.

As we ate we used our limited Arabic, or in my case, liberal sign language, to communicate with Ibrahim. We learned that recently four wolves had killed a gazelle not far from here. Ibrahim was a gentle soul with mischievous eyes, who in spite of the language barrier, grinned and laughed with us with ease. He grinned and prodded his Indian companion frequently, and there was something similar in his demeanour to the relaxed manner I find in Welsh hill farmers back home. Perhaps all people close to the elements share this attribute.

He looked up at the sky and the gathering dust storms and uttered the warning ‘tareeq mushkila’ (road problems) to which we agreed to take heed. The final treat was the cardamom-laced gahwa or Arabic coffee, which was served in the traditional thimble shaped cups. After a bout of ‘automatic timer’ photographs with us all in the picture, we had to say our goodbyes and leave after an awesome weekend.

Our journey back was fun, through Al-Kharj where we refuelled before turning up the escarpment to reach Abu Jifan fort from the south side. Andrew led some superb route finding and after some heavily stony and rutted tire-bashing we made it to the old ruin. After a quick tin of tuna and a cup of tea we hit the dirt tracks for a superb bit of ‘letting rip’ on the desert. It took an hour to reach the road from the fort – we had all feet down! After skirting Hofuf, and running low on fuel – where Paul’s spare fuel tank kept us in action, we arrived back in Dhahran late at 9pm, after a fantastic adventure.

Thanks to Paul for the organisation of this expedition, Kevin Dunham of the KKWRC for showing us around the Research Centre, Ibrahim for the tea, and to the ibex and gazelles themselves for giving us a good show ‘when it mattered’ on the day!

Jeremy Stocks.

Note: To those interested in reading more about the ibex I would refer them to the article ‘Lords of the Sandstone Canyons‘ by Dr. Khushal Habibi in the September/October 1995 issue of ‘Aramco World’ magazine. He has also written a book entitled ‘The Desert Ibex’, published by Immel in the UK.
