---
layout: post
title: Is Donna Tartt's "Goldfinch" a post 9/11 grief therapy device?
date: 2014-07-27 23:06
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
It's all quiet now at midnight and my wife and kids are peacefully asleep. But not I. &nbsp;A week before Easter I said goodbye to my last parent and it is only now becoming apparent to me how early on in the understanding of the event I am. About 3 weeks ago I now clearly recall a delayed tidal wave of nauseating (non literal) heart pain washed over me as a wave a hundred feet high, and I was left cartwheeling emotionally in its wake, struggling to surface and breathe. My poor wife was at a loss to understand what came over me, &nbsp;a fit of madness I couldn't explain, a second wave of pain similar to that which hit me several years ago when my mother died. If my wife couldn't understand it, then I certainly couldn't either! :)&nbsp;<div><br></div><div>I went through hell after she went, as I live abroad in Germany, way away from the drama unfolding at the end of a sporadic traumatic telephone update from Britain before and after the event. The tsunami of sadness at <i>her</i> loss evinced a backwash reaction of my own - I created a tsunami of beer over myself to wash away and cleanse the pain which of course it didn't do and created its own problems. The trouble was that unlike my compatriots back in Britain, I suffered entirely alone. There was here in Germany absolutely noone to turn to for help. This second time I have found a 'grief group' in my town with which I hope to find some common ground with others.</div><div><br></div><div>But back to Ms Tartt. The book opens with an explosion in New York and the ensuing trail Theo Decker follows in order to make sense of the loss of his mother. Whilst reading the alchemy of words she is so adept at mixing, I find myself cathartically swimming in another's sadness (Theo's) and occasionally sidetracked into awesomely detailed tiny vignettes of scenes she paints in just a few lines almost as an aside to the plot. The odd thing is I could not read this a few weeks after the funeral, but with some distance it's helping me safely go back there in a kind of controlled manner. I can only describe Ms Tartt as an alchemist, as the magical idyll she painted with words in <i>Secret History</i> suddenly she made explode in a dark puff of smoke within a few pages in that novel.&nbsp;</div><div><br></div><div>I have some hopes her newest book will help me comes to terms with my own loss, certainly my days with kids about me are so mentally exhausting that reading can be a struggle though. I'm up to the point where he meets the girl from the museum so if you've read further - no spoilers please!</div><div><br></div><div>As a final reflection, Somewhere I surfed up Carl Jung's teachings on the Shadow. How we must all acknowledge our dark side not pretend he isn't there, and not be afraid of him as when we see him as he really is therein lies a source of humility and creativity. I cannot help but feel that our Anglo Saxon ways deny his presence, I'd also argue that mainstream Catholicism has trouble with him. A few years ago we had a visit from the Krampus in our Bavarian home along with the Nikolaus. (I blogged about that a while back). Near the Alps where I live, the existence of the dark spirits and pagan forces is more overt where we are than in the main areas like Munich, and he came in rattling his chains in a sight which terrified even me let alone myy kids. As I gazed into his masked face I suddenly realised I'd met him before - in the Tibetan Buddisht masks of the Himalayan temples I'd spent a lot of time in, in my late 20s and 30s. The Tibetans weren't afraid of the dark side and elucidated who he or it was, in all his forms.</div><div><br></div><div>So it seems in order to heal myself I am going to have to meet my very own personal Krampus!</div>
