---
layout: post
title: The burping sheep - number three in a children's trilogy....
date: 2014-07-28 22:21
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Right then,<div><br></div><div>As told to my daughter this evening....</div><div><br></div><div>There was a sheep who weas very happy with his lot, eating all the grass he could see in front of him, then seeing another chunk nearby eating that....then having munched the newest piece, munched yet more.&nbsp;</div><div><br></div><div>One day he was eating as usual, then looked up and saw he was in this valley. Across the valley lay another meadow, with guess what? Awesome looking grass, succulent tasty stuff. Hey the best grass a erm sheep could ever lay his eyes upon!</div><div><br></div><div>So he resolved to cross the valley. he looked down and saw a river separated him from Arcadia.</div><div><br></div><div>Insetad of crossing he thought "bugger this I have a few suicidal mates who I can use first" so he maaaa'd to them first. Like well, sheep, they came down to see what was goin' down.</div><div><br></div><div>Couple of "Maa's" exchanged and they were crossing the bridge cockily (sorry to chickens -) sheepishly.</div><div><br></div><div>The first youngest stepped forth. "Maa!" he had heard vague rumours of trolls. None came! so over he went.</div><div><br></div><div>The second stepped boldly upon the bridge. "MAAAAAA!" He sniffed the air, stepped bravely on, then with an air of suspicion, looked underneath his bridge. What did he see?</div><div><br></div><div>Fucking nothing!</div><div><br></div><div>So he blithely walked over to the fresh grass.</div><div><br></div><div>So our cowardly sheep now decides to cross. Absolutely nothing happens. Slightly anti-climactically, he joins the others. No sheep were harmed up to this point.</div><div><br></div><div>However......</div><div><br></div><div>After an hour of eating this grass, our hero sheep notices that there are marsh rushes in the new grass. All of a sudden...</div><div><br></div><div>BURP!</div><div><br></div><div>Not only is he burping but minutes later his friends are all going "BURP!"</div><div><br></div><div>It turn out that the grass is poisoned with marsh grass poisonous to sheep.&nbsp;</div><div><br></div><div>So let that me a lesson to greedy sheep everywhere. The grass isn't always greener on the other side. In fact it can make you get horrible wind.</div>
