---
layout: post
title: A White Powder Which Kills
date: 2014-12-16 12:43
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [fitness, food, Stay At Home Dad, Uncategorized]
---
I had Robert Lustig's now famous Youtube lecture on "Watch Later" for three months thinking "Ah yeah, another diet..." then took time out to watch the hour and a half clip. Something had clicked in me. I am known in my family for saying "I'm not one for a sweet tooth but..." and eyes roll. I'll then dig out the Twix, biscuits or whatever is in the top shelf of our sweet cupboard.<div><br></div><div>About a week earlier I had a "Discussion" with my wife in front of my inlaws telling them the truth that our family can be "emotional" at times and screaming matches can ensue out of the blue. I'm a believer in full moon being a predictor of crazy behaviour, but I also started to wonder if other factors were at work. I'd never ever in my dreams considered the concept that food influenced moods, but there it seems, that after so long of my son and his tantrums, it may be insulin and sugar derived after all.</div><div><br></div><div>We ought to be in spite of this, poster children for the new generation of "green parents": we have a big veg garden which was my influence (or rather gardening was in herited from my parents back in the 1970s) and my German wife's very positive influence on us in for form of sport such as cross country skiing in winter and cycling in summer. I dug a veg patch and got Jamie Oliver At Home very early on to learn to cook. I've spent the last years planting, reading about what to do with the growing stuff, pruning apple treees and juicing them &nbsp;- all kind of Richard Briers "Good Life" sort of thing. I've even been a member of a gym. However I never managed to lose weight. My doc says we are a very healthy family, but still, we're not 100 of what we might be. I've started to wonder if our seemingly bakery habit might be less innocent than I thought.&nbsp;</div><div><br></div><div>Worse still the mentality seems to have been that weight loss is easy and just discipline, andone who failed must be lazy. How wrong this may seem to be.</div><div><br></div><div>From the famous Lustig lecture, if he is right (I believe so) then there are two hormones which control our biochemically derived behaviour (we are thus not as free as we thought). Ghrelin says to me "Eat!" and I duly obey its demind. When I am full another hormone kicks in named Leptin. This is the "full" hormone which has been somehow switched off. Nature ought to tell us to stop, but it doesn't. What is there in our bodies which may be affecting this hormone?</div><div><br></div><div>Sugar.&nbsp;<br><div><br></div><div>So if that's it then we have been misled all along. On the strength of this lecture, oh additionally on another book "Potatoes not Prozac" last week I began to cook breakfast, i.e., eggs noting how full they made often at midday when eating with thie kids. This breakfast is now a meal in the early morning I really get excited about, like I'm turning on the central heating for day. So I'm currently doing the "breakfast" thing and also giving up sugar. The first few days last week were awful. Groggy and tired the whole day for 3 days, I felt rotten.</div></div><div><br></div><div>A friend invited me to a 50th birthday party weekend and I admit the whole thing went to pot and I drank loads of beer. However the last three dayys I've been back on track. I'm noticing changes. Some tingles in extremities, like blood is flowing there. This morning I noticed my nose becoming unbelievably clean. I can breathe again. I could smell stuff in my kitchen for the first time in ages. I have a clearer head-. I've also given up wheat stuff - the bakery is on hold for the moment. If I get healthier, my son may not be so boisterous in the evening, my wife may be a little healthier every month (she suffers a lot).</div><div><br></div><div>Is this abstinence from sugar,and reduction of wider carbohydrates the solution to our admittedly small problem?&nbsp;</div>
