---
layout: post
title: Rebuilding a career after kids
date: 2016-02-08 07:46
author: jeremystocks
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
We're on the fifth anniversary of my mother's death, and much as I believe it had healed sometimes the events come painfully flooding back in technicolour. I'm writing a treatise on that expatriate grief on my Galaxy which I shall upload soon.

As a male carer of small kids, the free mornings allowed me to go out and gain some work after years of being unable to practise my old field of digital mapping, so I began by gardening for a wonderful old lady who sold her properties and thus latterly reduced my workload on her behalf. I started to work for a grocer but one morning whilst loading crates I slipped and banged my lip. A mouthful of blood and a swollen lip revealed that I was not cut for this type of back breaking work, I love the family I help but I just now do their recycling duties for them. A life of the body it seems is great to an extent, but for a former academic I need to return to a life of the mind.

So, about half a year ago, I set myself the task of teaching myself to code. After several abortive attempt to learn HTML I realised that this was simple scripting and not what I wanted to do, i.e., develop solutions to problems using logic, diagrams and well, my little 'ead. So I found the fantastic site caveofprogramming.com, and watched patiently a video per night from John Purcell's site. Over time I've come to understand the Java language.

It's led me to other avenues of web coding and design, namely once I understood how Java coded an app, either Android on a mobile (the Amis always pronounce it "mowbull" which cracks me up; even weirder sounding is the German word for it - "Handy") or on a server in which case one uses the Java Enterprise Edition. I've come full circle back to needing to code HTML and CSS  - both of which I now have some grasp. Because we are not in 1995 anymore there is a need to develop attractive graphics - not those bouncing rugby ball icons of the early web but nice illustrations - yeah let's download the free legal Adobe Creative Suite 2 Illustrator. I'm also mounting an expedition into learning SQL later!

So here are some of the ideas worming through my head as we speak:
<ul>
	<li>A social network for caravan/motorhome travellers across Europe named Bedoo</li>
	<li>A second-hand English book swapping network across Germany named simply Boox.</li>
	<li>A website for a charity in Florida</li>
	<li>Not least - my own website! I know the theory I just haven't got one underway yet!</li>
	<li>An app to survey boundaries on properties</li>
	<li>A nutrition app to help people reduce sugar</li>
</ul>
So, at 49 semi-retired but feeling the urge to get the "life of the mind" back together, the above projects float around in this blog author's mind, waiting to get underway.....
