---
layout: post
title:  "On discovering happiness through grief"
date:   2016-05-10 21:06:58 +0200
categories: opening
---

Right then,

I neglected to mention in my bio one of the biggest triggers to my health reboot was in actual fact grief. 

Not going to discuss yet the hole I fell into, but it was the loss of both of my parents which triggered the great questioning, the realisation that we are all alone and ultimately responsible to ourselves, which scared me to death and exhilarated me at the same time. My parents had me quite late in life, so I lost mine quite early in the scheme of things.

Following those events a curious insanity came over me for a few years. I wished to visit places where I'd been happy with both of them, such as your house in France and caravan holidays in Scotland. One of my crazy trips (I was quite uinsufferable to my family at the time) was to Rennes le Chateau in the Languedoc. For those who don't know it was the origin of the entire Da Vinci Code story. In the chapel down there are some downright strange sculptures. 

I've spent a bit of time figuring out the story down there and ended up with quite a spiritual outlook on life, but not the mainstream way of thinking.

How to find joy when you lose your parents? Very very hard, but grief is something you never ever forget, it comes to stay and you have to live alonside it. The saying "Time is a great healer" appertaining to grief is a lie. Time is a great teacher rather than a healer. That is a powerful lesson we need to learn, something I certainly had no idea about till I lost my Mum and Dad.

So perhaps this blog may help those navigating the stormy waters when they get that first "call" that something is wrong.... 
